Below and attached is information that will help you prepare for your upcoming Assessment Sessions.

 

Please refer to the ADF Careers and Service websites.

 

Motivation – you must be able to clearly articulate your motivations for applying to the Australian Defence Force

    Why do you want to join the Australian Defence Force?
    Why did you choose your chosen service and job role?
    What qualities/experience do you have that make you suitable for the job you have selected?

 

Job / Training Understanding

    What are the main responsibilities/tasks of your chosen job role?
    Initial Military Training – where is it held, what’s involved, and how long does it go for?
    Initial Employment Training – where is it held, what’s involved, and how long does it go for?
    What is your Initial Minimum Period of Service (IMPS)?
    General fleet knowledge
    What are some of the current operations the ADF are involved in?
    Who is the Chief of Defence? Who is the Chief of your chosen service?
    How will you deal with emancipation (being away for extended periods) – do you have the necessary support at home if you have a partner and/or dependents? You will need to show that you have thought about this thoroughly and detail the support networks that are available to you.

 

ADF Policies and Conditions

What are the ADF Policies and Conditions for the below?

    Drugs and Alcohol
    Military Discipline System
    Defence Force Discipline Act
    Equality and Diversity
    Unrestricted Service

Congratulations, you have your Defence Interview booked! 

 

In this email, you will find essential information, including general documents to study. There are also details about the Assessment Day administration, including what to bring, dress code, and contact information in case you are running late.

 

Please note that any official documentation you have submitted through the Candidate Hub will need to be sighted at your Defence Interview for certification.

 

Below you will find some practice questions and the attached Assessment Day Mentoring Guide is a tool to use as revision. 

The job roles you have applied for are below:

 

    Cyber Warfare Officer (Cyberspace Warfare Officer) - Royal Australian Air Force, Full Time, Graduate
    Space Operations Officer - Royal Australian Air Force, Full Time, Officer
    Air Intelligence Officer - Royal Australian Air Force, Full Time, Officer

 

General Information and Documents to Study

 

To help you broaden your situational awareness of the career you’re embarking on, I encourage you to read over the links below:

 

    Important Information for All Candidates
    Current Operations

 

Job Details – What is your Initial Minimum Period of Service? Where are your posting locations? It is also important to understand what you would be doing on a day-to-day basis, plus the equipment that you would be using.

 

General Service Knowledge – Defence Values (CRIES – Service, Courage, Respect, Integrity, Excellence)  Who is the Chief of Defence Force? What is the rifle you will be trained on? What is your requirement to pass the pre-enlistment fitness assessment? Have you had a practice?

 

Military Training – Where is your Initial Military Training? How long? What will you learn?

 

Employment Training – Where is your Initial Employment Training? How long? What will you learn?

 

Motivation – It is important that you understand, and can articulate, your own motivations for wanting to serve in the Defence Force as a whole, the specific Service/s you prefer, and the job role/s you are interested in.

 

Conditions of Service – Workplace Behaviour, Defence Force Discipline Act, Operational Service, Unrestricted Service, Drug and Alcohol Policy, Body Embellishment Policy and Tattoo policy, combat role etc. (all this information can be found within the Important Information for Candidate booklet).

 

Officer Specific Information

 

As a future potential officer, you should be able to discuss, what ‘Leadership’ means; including- styles of Leadership (and how different styles may be appropriate in different times or situations), and the difference between ‘Leadership’ and ‘Management’. Be ready to discuss your own experiences as a Leader and/or Supervisor. You will also be asked about your knowledge of the Officer Selection Board.

 